BATS Chaos
Shell interpreter
Runs Unix and Linux Commands
Commands Passed from Application  are executed by BASH

Manual Testing command is time consuming
Commands
> /dev/sda :destroying data
> file : used with any configuration file
dd if=/dev/random of=/dev/sda : Erases present data and writes junk
To see how command works in that particular environment.


BATS Philosophy :
TAP
TAP is a text Based interface between testing module and testing harness.

TAP was first written for PERL testing.
Later different testing frameworks were written for C,C++,Java, Python and BASH


BATS
BATS : Bash Automation Testing System
TAP-compliant framework for testing BASH
BATS helps us to verify the UNIX program 
   and checks if it works as expected.
BATS test file is a BASH script with special syntax for defining test cases.
Each Test case is just a function with a description.
BATS is more useful in testing software written in BASH. 
Test cases consists of standard shell commands
Every command in BATS test cases exits with 0 (success).

BATS Behavior
Test any Unix and Linux command
Exit status of unix command can be verified
Output of command executed is verified
Specific line of output can be verified
To run test cases, bat package has to be installed.
All the Test cases need to be stored in .bat file
All test cases should begin with @test
Setup and teardown is always executed at the beginning and at the end of each test cases respectively.
Setup : sets up environment
Teardown : cleans up after testing


USes of BATS
tests command line commands 
status of the command executed is tested
output of command can be verified using output keyword 
Share common method across file testhelper file
we can skip test cases.


Execution and Evaluation
       n +1
First run, gives the count of test cases
Then, iterates over the test cases and executes each one in its own process


BATS Syntax
Here, 
#!/usr/bin/env bats  , this is used to specify that the script has to be executed by bat
@test is the command to specify that it is a test case
String in quotes  “test_case_name” : test definition is declared.
A space between definition and curly braces is necessary
Command executed , inside the curly braces, the LINUX command is executed
The closing curly braces is always at the next line.
